HOSTING

Hosting is currently done by Steadfast.net, which provides the server, routine maintenance
and internet.  There are 3 primary web interfaces used to administer the site.

https://manage.steadfast.net/client/ account 3392 
buys services, can reboot servers, monitor health, pay bills and so on. 
It's rarely needed in the routine running of things.

https://boardspace.net:2443/nodeworx   account mb@tantrix.com
is the master configuration for the system, establish
sub domains and user accounts.

https://boardspace.net:2443/siteworx/ one for each virtual site

The main user shell account is boardspa@boardspace.net  Almost all the 
routine site things are done with that account.  A few require root.

It can be pretty confusing to find a particular control function among these links.



Steps to configure a server.  

Suppose you have a virgin L.A.M.P server with only the stock starting software installed.
These are things you need to do to make it boardspace.

SSH:

In the Nodeworx control panel, ssh settings.

Disable ssh logins from root.  When doing root things, you will have to login to a 
user account first, then su to root. 

Change the ssh port.  There are random bots trolling the standard port, tying passwords, all
the fucking time. Boardspace uses port 9130 for ssh

Once the ssh port has been changed and tested, the default port 22 should be disabled
in the firewall.

MYSQL:

Disable mysql login from remote hosts.  Instead, to do mysql things remotely, use
the path that uses ssh to a user account, tunneled to mysql.  Mysqladmin supports this.

Create and install the databases.  The "boardspace" database us all that's reqired, 
but the phpbb database is also used.  The verion of phpbb used on boardspace is ancient,
but has been specially modified to share boardspace' login information.  If the php database
is not installed, some of the boardspace registration and account editing scripts will malfunction.

Database names and passwords need to be installed in cgi-bin/include.pl and include.csh

Manual database tweaks (inspection, changes...) are much easier to make using MysqlWorkbench
from a pc.  Congfigure it to use ssh tunneling.  Use with extreme caution!

YUM packages

cpan
xinitd
libgd (installed by steadfast)
uri
unicode (huge, multipart)
Encode
Unicode::Escape

PERL cpan packages

Bundle::Mysql
force install Mysql
edit httpd.conf to allow server side includes
perl cpan install GD GD::SVG GD::Graph
procmail (contains lockfile)
perl-LWP-Protocol-https

CRON


PASSWORDS

all the passwords and other secrets needed to run the perl scripts and 
game server out to be localized in include.pl and include.csh.  DO NOT
PUSH new versions containing actual passwords back to the repository.

Generally speaking, the passwords in those files are only needed internally
and can be changed as needed.  One exception to the general rule is the
"tea" password, which is a shared secret with the java code.  Several of
the passwords are "human secrets" that operators using web scripts might
need to know.

BUDDY BACKUPS

Daily backups of some new state is done to tantrix.com account bstt
via a cron script, "backup to tantrix".  Some ssh keys need to be shared to 
make this work.   Recipricol backups use the account "tantrixb" on the
boardspace server.

ARCHIVE BACKUPS

daily and monthly cron scripts make copies to be downloaded and archived,
the copies are found in www/mirror/ and ~/mirror/  There are
also daily backups of the databases, in cron/backup


MAIN SERVER
the main game server is built in ~/cserver and deployed in ~/bin
scripts in ~/server start it automatically when the first connection
is attempted.  See local README files for more.


