			About deployment of Boardspace after an update.


There are two more or less separate procedures, one for desktop apps based on java; the
other for mobile apps created by codename1. 

Java:
The sources for this are in the "Java" hierarchy.

Compile all sources, using the "kawa" app, which is an ancient java ide.  This creates
a set of .class files in the \v101 folder.   The v101 folder also contains the deployed
copies of images and sounds.   It is OK, and sometimes necessary, to delete all the .class
files, but the .jpg and .au files should remain.   

Build and sign jars using the script "jdk11c" which invokes the script "make-online-jar.bat"
and indirectly "sign.bat".   This creates a separate set of signed jars in the \v102 folder,
which is what is ready to be copied to the live site.    Note on signing:   signing only necessary
for java web start.  The boardspace.exe launcher doesn't check signatures.   Current generation
of signing involves a code signing certificate from ssl.com, and a hardware "yubikey".

Upload v102 to the htdocs\java folder, rename the v102 to a new folder name, update the
"jws" alias to point to the new folder (this is used by java web start).  edit \cgi-bin\include.pl
to point to the new directory (this is used by the boardspace.exe launcher).  

Codename1:
The sources for this are in the "Codename1" hierarchy.  These are functionally
identical to the Java sources, and mostly differ from them only in the first
few lines of any .java file.   The other major difference is that images and
sounds are in separate .res files, rather than in the images/ subfolders.

Build test versions using the boardspace-cn2 project, android builds and ios debug builds.
These builds can be installed on devices directly from the codename1 build site.

Build release versions using the boardspace-cn1 project, android builds and ios release builds.
These and be uploaded to the app stores.
When accepted by the app stores, update cgi-bin\include.pl to make the new versions the preferred versions.
